[docs] [migrate] Performance section for YB Voyager (#13003)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/migrate/yb-voyager/performance.md

There are other factors which can impact the speed of data ingestion. One or more or all of the following can be done to increase the ingestion performance.

- Data load parallelism - The yb-voyager engine executes ‘N’ parallel batch ingestion jobs at any given time where ‘N’ is equal to the number of nodes in the YugabyteDB cluster. Normally this is considered as a good default practice. However, the target YugabyteDB cluster can be running on high resource machines. Machines which have a large number of cpu cores. In such cases, the default parallelism may seem unfit resulting in underutilization of cpu resources.

It is good practice to have at least ‘C’ number of batch ingestion jobs run simultaneously, where ‘C’ is equal to the sum total of all the cores available in the entire cluster.

{{< note title="Note" >}}

If the cpu usage is going beyond 80%, then it is recommended to lower the parallelism a bit. Similarly if the cpu% is still low, one can increase the parallelism. Include the [–parallel-jobs](../../yb-voyager/yb-voyager-cli/#parallel-jobs) to the import data command to override the default parallelism by specifying the number of connections.

{{< /note >}}

> - Batch size - Choosing a very small value of [--batch-size](../../yb-voyager/yb-voyager-cli/#batch-size) (Default is 100000) might result in slow performance, because the time spent on actual data import might be comparable/less to time spent on other tasks such as bookkeeping, setting up the client connection and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Batch size - Choosing a very small value for [--batch-size](../../yb-voyager/yb-voyager-cli/#batch-size) (Default is 100000) can result in slow performance, because the time spent on actual data import might be comparable or less than time spent on other tasks such as bookkeeping, setting up the client connection, and so on.
```

> - Disk write contention - YugabyteDB servers can be passed with one or multiple disk volumes to store tablet data. If all the tablets are writing to a single disk, then write contention can slow down the ingestion speed. In such cases, configuring the [yb-tservers](../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/) with multiple disks helps in reducing the disk write contention; thereby increasing the throughput. Additionally, disks with higher IOPS and better throughput improve the write performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Disk write contention - YugabyteDB servers can be configured with one or multiple disk volumes to store tablet data. If all tablets are writing to a single disk, write contention can slow down the ingestion speed. Configuring the [YB-TServers](../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/) with multiple disks can reduce disk write contention, thereby increasing throughput. Disks with higher IOPS and better throughput also improve write performance.
```

- Number of table splits:

>   - For larger tables and indexes that are [hash](../../../architecture/docdb-sharding/sharding/#hash-sharding) sharded, specify the number of initial tablet splits desired as a part of the DDL statement of the table. This can be very beneficial to distribute the data of the table across multiple nodes right from the get go. Refer to [hash-sharded tables](../../../architecture/docdb-sharding/tablet-splitting/#hash-sharded-tables) for an example to specify the number of tablets at table creation time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - For larger tables and indexes that are [hash](../../../architecture/docdb-sharding/sharding/#hash-sharding) sharded, specify the number of initial tablet splits as a part of the table DDL statement. This can help distribute the table data across multiple nodes right from the get go. Refer to [hash-sharded tables](../../../architecture/docdb-sharding/tablet-splitting/#hash-sharded-tables) for an example of how to specify the number of tablets at table creation time.
```

>   - For larger tables and indexes that are [range](../../../architecture/docdb-sharding/sharding/#range-sharding) sharded, and the value ranges of the primary key columns are known ahead of time, pre-split them at the time of creation. Refer to [range-sharded tables](../../../architecture/docdb-sharding/tablet-splitting/#hash-sharded-tables) for an example to specify the split points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - For larger tables and indexes that are [range](../../../architecture/docdb-sharding/sharding/#range-sharding) sharded, if the value ranges of the primary key columns are known ahead of time, pre-split them at the time of creation. Refer to [range-sharded tables](../../../architecture/docdb-sharding/tablet-splitting/#hash-sharded-tables) for an example of how to specify the split points.
```

>   - For larger tables and indexes that are [range](../../../architecture/docdb-sharding/sharding/#range-sharding) sharded, and the value ranges of the primary key columns are known ahead of time, pre-split them at the time of creation. Refer to [range-sharded tables](../../../architecture/docdb-sharding/tablet-splitting/#hash-sharded-tables) for an example to specify the split points.

Reviewer: range sharded tables link is wrong

> - Larger cluster - If the cluster size is increased, then the write contention is reduced and it helps with faster data ingestion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Increase cluster size - Write contention is reduced with larger cluster sizes.
```

{{< note title="Note" >}}

> All the performance optimizations suggested for data import phase is applicable for ingestion from _files_ as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These performance optimizations apply to both the data import phase and for importing from _files_.
```

{{< /note >}}

> ## Experiment showcasing how to obtain faster ingestion speed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Data import speeds
```

> 

Reviewer: The following migration test was run using a 40MB CSV file with 120 million rows. Data was imported using varying configurations including more parallel jobs, multiple disks, and a larger cluster.

The table schema for the test was a s follows:

- Experiment details : Import from a CSV file

- File size : 40GB

- Number of rows : 120 million

- Table schema:

```sql
CREATE TABLE topology_flat (
    userid_fill uuid,
    idtype_fill text,
    userid uuid,
    idtype text,
    level int,
    locationgroupid uuid,
    locationid uuid,
    parentid uuid,
    attrs jsonb,
    PRIMARY KEY (userid, level, locationgroupid, parentid, locationid)
);
```

With increased disk and CPU usage, the data ingestion speed is faster. The experiment includes runs performed with varying configurations including more parallel jobs, multiple disks, and a larger cluster.

The following table includes results from the experiment. Notice the increasing average throughput numbers as more optimizations are introduced with each run.

| Experiment | Cluster configuration | yb-voyager flags | CPU usage | Average throughput |
| :---------- | :------------------- | :--------------- | :-------- | :----------------- |

> | 3 parallel jobs | 3 node [RF](../../../architecture/docdb-replication/replication/#replication-factor) 3 cluster, c5.4x large ( 16 cores 32gb ) <br> 1 EBS Type gp3 disk per node, 3000 IOPS, 125 MiB bandwidth | batch-size=200k, parallel-jobs=3 | CPU was observed to hover around 50% throughout the ingestion period | 43K rows/sec |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 3 parallel jobs | 3 node [RF](../../../architecture/docdb-replication/replication/#replication-factor) 3 cluster, c5.4x large (16 cores 32 GB) <br> 1 EBS Type gp3 disk per node, 3000 IOPS, 125 MiB bandwidth | batch-size=200k, parallel-jobs=3 | ~50% | 43K rows/sec |
```

> | Same machine with increased parallelism ( 1 per core ) | 3 node [RF](../../../architecture/docdb-replication/replication/#replication-factor) cluster, c5.4x large ( 16 cores 32gb ) <br> 1 EBS Type gp3 disk per node, 3000 IOPS, 125 MiB bandwidth | batch-size=200k, parallel-jobs=48 | CPU was observed to hover around 80% throughout the ingestion period | 117K rows/sec | -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Increased parallelism (1 per core ) | 3 node RF 3 cluster, c5.4x large (16 cores 32 GB) <br> 1 EBS Type gp3 disk per node, 3000 IOPS, 125 MiB bandwidth | batch-size=200k, parallel-jobs=48 | ~80% | 117K rows/sec | -->
```

> | Same machine with multiple disks per yb-tserver | 3 node [RF](../../../architecture/docdb-replication/replication/#replication-factor) cluster, c5.4x large ( 16 cores 32gb ) <br> 4 EBS Type gp3 disk per node, 3000 IOPS, 125 MiB bandwidth | | CPU was observed to hover around 90% | 193K rows/sec |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Multiple disks per YB-TServer | 3 node RF 3 cluster, c5.4x large (16 cores 32GB) <br> 4 EBS Type gp3 disks per node, 3000 IOPS, 125 MiB bandwidth | ~90% | 193K rows/sec |
```

> | With a larger cluster | 6 Node [RF](../../../architecture/docdb-replication/replication/#replication-factor) cluster, c5.4x large ( 16 cores 32gb ) <br> 4 EBS Type gp3 disk per node, 3000 IOPS, 125 MiB bandwidth | | CPU was observed to hover around 90% | 227K rows/sec |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Additional nodes | 6 Node RF 3 cluster, c5.4x large (16 cores 32GB) <br> 4 EBS Type gp3 disks per node, 3000 IOPS, 125 MiB bandwidth | ~90% | 227K rows/sec |
```
